README.md, before:

# Design Document

By Pablo Lorenzo

Video overview: [Demo](https://youtu.be/z3Xj8uyYM28?si=sYfwwzowZXfFexmu)

## Scope

This is a bank application that uses two SQLite databases. Most banking systems include an Identity Provider (IDP) and Resource server, to allow IDP-Authenticated users to access the bank's different applications.
In this project idp.db is the IDP database, and bank.db is the Bank's online application database, the first saves identity information such as users, roles, oauth clients and authorization codes while the former saves user's bank accounts, transactions and transfers. The purpose of this system is for users to log in to their bank accounts and perform transactions using a simple console API. This functionality is achieved by using code that execute raw queries saved in `Data/Bank/Queries` and `Data/Idp/Queries`. This project highlights how modern applications handle authentication with IDPS and provide API's that at the lowest level simply execute SQL queries without the need of using ORMs or other abstractions.

## Functional Requirements
* Users should be able to register using the IDP Api.
* The Bank Application should be able to create Bank Accounts using the identity tokens issued by the IDP Api.
* Users should be able to login to their Bank's Application using OPEN ID CONNECT.
* Users should be able to perform financial transactions and transfers.
* Users should be able to check their balance.
* Users should be able to see the application logs.

## Representation

### Entities
#### IDP.
* `users`: this is a simple entity it has an username a password_hash and a password_salt. In this database passwords are not saved as plain text, these are hashed using SHA256 this way in case of leak the passwords are not exposed, and also we save the password_salt which is a key to make users with the same password have different hashes.
* `roles`: roles is a joined table which relate users with claims. A role has multiple claims, and a claim can be in multiple rows, finally an user can have multiple rows. This define what the user can do and not do in an application.
* `authorization_codes`: An authorization code is a code that is emitted when an user wants an application (oauth_client) to have their `identity token`, for this reason the authorization code saves the `user_id` and `oauth_client_id`, also the user can choose what access it wants the bearer to have using the `scopes` field.
* `oauth_clients`: this table saves all the applications registered to the identity provider, this application can get identity tokens, for this they register with a `client_id` and a `client_secret`.

#### Bank
* `accounts`: these are the bank accounts, the `user_id` should reference the user's id in the `idp`.
* `transfers`: this table saves financial transfers between accounts.
* `transactions`: this table keeps track of all the credit and debits made in a bank account. it has an `amount` field and a `type` field which can be either 'DEPOSIT' or 'WITHDRAWAL'.
* `logs`: log everything an user does related to financial movements.

### Relationships
![Entity Relationship Diagram](ER%20BankApp.png)

#### IDP
Users can have multiple rows that can have multiple claims, this define what they can do in an application.

authorization_codes are codes that authorized applications can exchange by identity tokens, for this reason this table is related to the `users` table (the user who gave consent to an app to see their identity) and
the application who will bear the toke `oauth_clients`. An authorization code can only have one user and one oauth client.

Finally applications registered in the IDP are calld `oauth_clients` these must provide their client id and a client secret, with this client they can ask for identity tokens. These applications get an identity token
by exchaging an authorization code by an identity token, for this reason an `oauth_client` can have multiple `authorization_codes`.

#### BANK
Bank accounts are related to an user in the bank's idp, an user can have multiple bank accounts. These accounts can perform financial transactions such as deposits and withdrawals, and also they can transfer money to other accounts. Each financial movement made by an account is registered in the `logs` table.

## Optimizations

In the bank's database two indexes were created.
- `transactions_by_user`: this is done on the `transactions` table and `account_id` column, this index allows querying the transactions made by an user faster.
- `logs_date`: this is done on the `logs` table and `date` column. This makes log queries by date faster.

## Limitations
This database provides limited functionality compared to a bank's database. The purpose of this project lies on showing how IDP's and applications work together in enterprise applications.

Commit message:

Update README with setup instructions and scope
Added setup instructions and clarified project scope.

README.md, after:

# Design Document

By Pablo Lorenzo

Video overview: [Demo](https://youtu.be/z3Xj8uyYM28?si=sYfwwzowZXfFexmu)

## How to Set Up
1) Modify the connection strings in `settings.json` with the actual paths of the databases.
2) Make sure you have `sqlite3` installed and added to your Path Environment Variables, [download sqlite3 here](https://sqlite.org/download.html).
3) There's already an `IDP.db` and `Bank.db` database with data, you can choose to clean them by doing the following steps.
4) First open the database with `sqlite3 path_to_your_db/name_of_your_db.db`.
5) Drop everything with `.read path_to_file/reset-db.sql` these `reset-db.sql` files are inside `Data/Bank` and `Data/Idp` use the correct sql files depending on the db you're working with. Do this with each database.
6) Fill the databases with `.read path_to_file/schema.sql` these are in the same directory as the reset-db.sql files.

Finally to run the program
1) Make sure you have .NET 9 runtime installed, [download .net](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download).
2) Finally inside the app directory execute `dotnet run`.

## Scope
This is a bank application that uses two SQLite databases. Most banking systems include an Identity Provider (IDP) and Resource server, to allow IDP-Authenticated users to access the bank's different applications.
In this project idp.db is the IDP database, and bank.db is the Bank's online application database, the first saves identity information such as users, roles, oauth clients and authorization codes while the former saves user's bank accounts, transactions and transfers. The purpose of this system is for users to log in to their bank accounts and perform transactions using a simple console API. This functionality is achieved by using code that execute raw queries saved in `Data/Bank/Queries` and `Data/Idp/Queries`. This project highlights how modern applications handle authentication with IDPS and provide API's that at the lowest level simply execute SQL queries without the need of using ORMs or other abstractions.

## Functional Requirements
* Users should be able to register using the IDP Api.
* The Bank Application should be able to create Bank Accounts using the identity tokens issued by the IDP Api.
* Users should be able to login to their Bank's Application using OPEN ID CONNECT.
* Users should be able to perform financial transactions and transfers.
* Users should be able to check their balance.
* Users should be able to see the application logs.

## Representation

### Entities
#### IDP.
* `users`: this is a simple entity it has an username a password_hash and a password_salt. In this database passwords are not saved as plain text, these are hashed using SHA256 this way in case of leak the passwords are not exposed, and also we save the password_salt which is a key to make users with the same password have different hashes.
* `roles`: roles is a joined table which relate users with claims. A role has multiple claims, and a claim can be in multiple rows, finally an user can have multiple rows. This define what the user can do and not do in an application.
* `authorization_codes`: An authorization code is a code that is emitted when an user wants an application (oauth_client) to have their `identity token`, for this reason the authorization code saves the `user_id` and `oauth_client_id`, also the user can choose what access it wants the bearer to have using the `scopes` field.
* `oauth_clients`: this table saves all the applications registered to the identity provider, this application can get identity tokens, for this they register with a `client_id` and a `client_secret`.

#### Bank
* `accounts`: these are the bank accounts, the `user_id` should reference the user's id in the `idp`.
* `transfers`: this table saves financial transfers between accounts.
* `transactions`: this table keeps track of all the credit and debits made in a bank account. it has an `amount` field and a `type` field which can be either 'DEPOSIT' or 'WITHDRAWAL'.
* `logs`: log everything an user does related to financial movements.

### Relationships
![Entity Relationship Diagram](ER%20BankApp.png)

#### IDP
Users can have multiple rows that can have multiple claims, this define what they can do in an application.

authorization_codes are codes that authorized applications can exchange by identity tokens, for this reason this table is related to the `users` table (the user who gave consent to an app to see their identity) and
the application who will bear the toke `oauth_clients`. An authorization code can only have one user and one oauth client.

Finally applications registered in the IDP are calld `oauth_clients` these must provide their client id and a client secret, with this client they can ask for identity tokens. These applications get an identity token
by exchaging an authorization code by an identity token, for this reason an `oauth_client` can have multiple `authorization_codes`.

#### BANK
Bank accounts are related to an user in the bank's idp, an user can have multiple bank accounts. These accounts can perform financial transactions such as deposits and withdrawals, and also they can transfer money to other accounts. Each financial movement made by an account is registered in the `logs` table.

## Optimizations

In the bank's database two indexes were created.
- `transactions_by_user`: this is done on the `transactions` table and `account_id` column, this index allows querying the transactions made by an user faster.
- `logs_date`: this is done on the `logs` table and `date` column. This makes log queries by date faster.

## Limitations
This database provides limited functionality compared to a bank's database. The purpose of this project lies on showing how IDP's and applications work together in enterprise applications.
